doc: update ACRN configuration tool document (#3742)
projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor: doc/tutorials/acrn_configuration_tool.rst

ACRN Configuration Tool
#######################

> ACRN configuration tool is designed for System Integrators / Tier1’s to customize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ACRN configuration tools are designed to help customize
```

> ACRN to meet their own needs. It consists of two tools. The Kconfig tool and the 

Reviewer 2: Done

> ACRN to meet their own needs. It consists of two tools. The ``Kconfig`` tool and the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ACRN for a specific use-case and hardware design. It consists of two tools. The ``Kconfig`` tool and the 
```

> acrn-config tool. The latter allows users to provision VMs via a WebUI and configure 

Reviewer 2: Done

> ``acrn-config`` tool. The latter allows users to provision VMs via a WebUI and configure 

Reviewer: I have mixed feelings about the use of "provision" here, would be "define" be a good alternative? @deb-intel

   acrn-hypervisor/devicemodel/samples/

ACRN Configuration XMLs
***********************
ACRN configuration introduced three kinds of XMLs for acrn-config usage:
**board**, **scenario** and **launch** XML.
All scenario-irrelevant hardware-specific information of Board configuration is
stored in **board** XML. The XML is generated by ``misc/acrn-config/target/board_parser.py``

> which run on target board.

Reviewer 2: Done

configuration are stored in **scenario** XML. The launch script-based VM
configuration is stored in **launch** XML. These two XMLs could be customized
with WebUI tool at ``misc/acrn-config/config-app/app.py``. End users could load
their own configurations by importing customized XMLs or save the
configurations by exporting XMLs.

Board XML format
================
Board XML has a root element of ``acrn-config`` with attribute of **board**, i.e.

.. code-block:: xml

   <acrn-config board=”BOARD”>

As an input for ``acrn-config`` tool, end users do not need to care about the
format of board XML and should not modify it.

Scenario XML format
===================
Scenario XML has a root element of ``acrn-config`` with attributes of **board**
and **scenario**, i.e.

.. code-block:: xml

   <acrn-config board=”BOARD” scenario=”SCENARIO”>

Below is the usage of other elements:

:``vm``: Specify the VM with VMID by its "id" attribute.
:``load_order``: Specify the VM by its load order:
             PRE_LAUNCHED_VM, SOS_VM or POST_LAUNCHED_VM.
:``name`` under parent of ``vm``: Specify the VM name which will be
                          shown in hypervisor console command: vm_list.

> :``uuid``: UUID of the VM. It is for internal use and not configurable.

Reviewer 3: XML is supposed to be modified by our UI tool only. The element with attribute of "configurable=0“ and "readonly=true" would make sure they are not editable in UI. If some unconfigurable elements get changed by other edit tool, we might have problem.

> :``uuid``: UUID of the VM. It is for internal use and not configurable.

Reviewer: Thanks @jsun26intel , this is good to know. The documentation is good as it is today then!

      and import the ``$(BOARD).xml``, select your working scenario under
      **Scenario Setting** and input the desired scenario settings. The tool
      will do a sanity check on the input based on ``$(BOARD).xml``. The
      customized settings could be exported to your own ``$(SCENARIO).xml``.
   #. In the configuration tool UI, input the launch script parameters for the
      post-launched User VM under **Launch Setting**. The tool will sanity
      check the input based on both ``$(BOARD).xml`` and ``$(SCENARIO).xml``
      and then export settings to your ``$(LAUNCH).xml``.
   #. The user defined XMLs could be imported by acrn-config for modification.

   .. note:: Please refer :ref:`acrn_config_tool_ui` for more details on
      the configuration tool UI.

#. Auto generate code.

   Python tools are used to generate configurations in patch format.
   The patches will be applied to your local ``acrn-hypervisor`` git tree
   automatically.

   a. Generate a patch for the board-related configuration with:

      .. code-block:: console

         cd misc/board_config
         python3 board_cfg_gen.py --board $(BOARD).xml --scenario $(SCENARIO).xml

>       .. note:: This could be done by click **Generate Board SRC** in acrn-config UI.

Reviewer 3: source code

>       .. note:: This could be done by click **Generate Board SRC** in acrn-config UI.

Reviewer: Thanks

   :align: center

   offline tool workflow

.. _acrn_config_tool_ui:

How to use ACRN config app
**************************

> ACRN config app is used to read board info, configure and validate scenario settings,

Reviewer 4: ACRN config app is a web UI application to read board info, configure and validate scenario setting,

> generate board source code and scenario source code, configure and validate launch

Reviewer 4: automatically generate a patch for board related configuration, scenario-based VM configuration

> settings, and generate launch scripts.

Reviewer 4: configure and validate launch settings, generate the launch scripts for the specified post-launch User VMs.

Prerequisites
=============
.. _get acrn repo:
   https://projectacrn.github.io/latest/getting-started/building-from-source.html#get-the-acrn-hypervisor-source-code

- Follow the :ref:`instruction <getting-started-building>` to install the
  ACRN hypervisor dependencies and tools on your development host.

- Follow the `get acrn repo`_ to download ACRN hypervisor repo to your host.

- Install ACRN config app dependencies:

  .. code-block:: console

     $ cd ~/acrn-hypervisor/misc/acrn-config/config_app
     $ sudo pip3 install -r requirements

How to use ACRN config app
==========================
#. Launch ACRN config app:

   .. code-block:: console

      $ python3 app.py

> #. The browser should be launched and navigated to the website:

Reviewer 4: make sure you can connect to open network from browser because the app needs to download some javascript files

   .. note:: The ACRN config app is supported on Chrome, Firefox or MS Edge, do not use IE.

   The website as shown below:

   .. figure:: images/acrn_config_main_menu.png
      :align: center
      :scale: 80%
      :name: ACRN config tool main menu

#. Set the board info:

   a. Click the button **Import Board info**.

      .. figure:: images/click_import_board_info_button.png
         :align: center
         :scale: 80%

   #. Upload the board info you have generated by ACRN config tool.

   #. After board info uploaded, you will see the board name from the Board info list,
      select the board name to be configured.

      .. figure:: images/select_board_info.png
         :align: center
         :scale: 80%

#. Choose a scenario from the “Scenario Setting” menu which lists all the scenarios
   including default scenarios and user-defined scenarios for the board you selected
   in the previous step. The scenario configuration xmls are located in
   ``acrn-hypervisor/misc/xmls/config-xmls/[board]/``.

   .. figure:: images/choose_scenario.png
      :align: center
      :scale: 80%

#. It is also allowed to use a customized scenario xml by clicking the Import button.

>    The config app will auto direct to the new scenario xml once the import is completed.

Reviewer 4: auto -> automatically

#. The configurable items will be displayed after one scenario is selected. Here is
   the example of "SDC" scenario:

   .. figure:: images/configure_scenario.png
      :align: center
      :scale: 80%

>    - You can editor those items directly in the text boxes, choose single or even multiple

Reviewer 4: editor -> edit;

     items from the drop down list.

   - Read-only items are marked as grey.

   - Hover the mouse pointer over the item to display the description.

#. Click **Export** button to save the scenario xml, you can rename it in the pop-up modal.

   .. note:: All customized scenario xmls will be in user-defined groups which located in
      ``acrn-hypervisor/misc/xmls/config-xmls/[board]/user_defined/``.

>    After the scenario is saved, the page will auto direct to the saved scenario xmls.

Reviewer 4: auto -> automatically

   You can delete the configured scenario by click button **Export** -> **Remove**.

>    Before saving the scenario xml, the config app will validate the configurable items;

Reviewer 4: suggest to organize this paragraph like this: Before saving, validate. After saving, direct to the saved scenario. You can delete...

   If there are errors, the config app will list all wrong configurable items and show errors as below:

   .. figure:: images/err_acrn_configuration.png
      :align: center
      :scale: 80%

> #. Click **Generate Board SRC** to save current scenario setting and then generate board

Reviewer 4: and then generate a patch for the board-related configuration

   source codes in ``acrn-hypervisor/hypervisor/arch/x86/configs/[board]/``.

> #. Click **Generate Scenario SRC** to save current scenario setting and then generate

Reviewer 4: and then generate a patch for scenario-based VM configuration

   scenario source codes in ``acrn-hypervisor/hypervisor/scenarios/[scenario]/``.

#. **Launch Setting** is quite similar with **Scenario Setting**:

   a. Upload board info or select one board as current board.

>    #. Import your local launch setting xml by click button **Import** or select one launch

Reviewer 4: by click -> by clicking
or select -> or selecting

      setting xml from menu.

   #. Select one scenario for current launch setting from the drop down box **Select Scenario**.

   #. Configure the items for current launch setting.

   #. Save current launch setting to user defined xml files by click the button **Export**.
      The config app will validate current configuration and will list all wrong configurable
      items and show errors.

   #. Click the button **Generate Launch Script** to save current launch setting and then
      generate launch script.

>       .. figure:: images/generate_launch_script.png

Reviewer 4: the sizes of controls in the page look larger than others, suggest to screenshot them in the same scaling size

scenario-based VM configuration, configure and validate launch settings, generate
the launch scripts for the specified post-launched User VMs.

Prerequisites
=============
.. _get acrn repo guide:
   https://projectacrn.github.io/latest/getting-started/building-from-source.html#get-the-acrn-hypervisor-source-code

- Follow the :ref:`instruction <getting-started-building>` to install the
  ACRN hypervisor dependencies and tools on your development host.

- Follow the `get acrn repo guide`_ to download ACRN hypervisor repo to your host.

- Install ACRN configuration app dependencies:

  .. code-block:: console

     $ cd ~/acrn-hypervisor/misc/acrn-config/config_app
     $ sudo pip3 install -r requirements

How to use ACRN configuration app
=================================
#. Launch ACRN configuration app:

   .. code-block:: console

      $ python3 app.py

#. The browser should be launched and navigated to the website:
   `<http://127.0.0.1:5001/>`_ automatically, or you may need to visit this website manually.

   .. note:: Make sure you can connect to open network from browser because the app needs

>       to download some javascript files.

Reviewer 4: @gvancuts the files are libraries of jquery and bootstrap which are third-party, open sourced(licence compatible with acrn-hypervisor), and very popular libraries for web applications. So these files should not be in acrn-hypervisor source codes and can be downloaded from network easily. Actually we need the network to clone acrn-hypervisor and install dependencies, so the network is not additional burden.

>       to download some javascript files.

Reviewer: I may sound pessimistic but I think we **will** run into problems with this dependency on having a network connection, especially with professional users that are typically behind proxy connections... we should think about a way to at least easily enable a user to create an offline version of the tool to be used by co-workers, lab folks, etc.

>       to download some javascript files.

Reviewer 4: as for this case, we will provide a method for users to offline use this tool in the next version.
